# DIAMOND MODEL - TryHackMe SOC1

The Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis- adversary, infrastructure, capability, and victim [the atomic element of any intrusion activity].
Used to identify the elements of an intrusion and analyze APT’s (Advanced Persistent Threats).
Adversary- attacker, enemy, cyber threat actor, or hacker.
Operator- conducts intrusion activity.
Customer- benefits from the activity conducted in the intrusion.
Victim- target of the adversary [organization, person, target email address, IP address, domain, etc] to gain a foothold on the organization.
Personae- people/organizations being targeted.
Assets- attack surface, including the set of systems, networks, email addresses, hosts, IP addresses].
Capability- skills, tools, and techniques used by an adversary in the event.
TTPs- Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 	
Capacity- all of the vulnerabilities/exposures an individual capability can use
Adversary Arsenal- set of capabilities belonging to an adversary.

Infrastructure- software/hardware - physical/logical interconnections; physical or logical interconnections that the adversary uses to deliver a capability or maintain control of capabilities.
Type 1: Infrastructure controlled by the adversary
Type 2: Infrastructure controlled by an intermediary; obfuscates the sources and attribution of the activity (malware staging servers, malicious domain names, compromised email accounts. 
Service Providers- Internet Service, Domain Registars, and Webmail providers.

Diamond Model Meta-Features:
Timestamp- date/time of events (malicious activity).
Phase- (Reconnaissance, Weaponization, Delivery, Exploitation, Installation, Command & Control, Actions on Objective)
Result- success/failure/unknown - post-conditions of advesary’s operations
Direction- direction of the intrusion attack of host-based and network-based events
Methodology- general classification of intrusion (phising, DDos, breach, portscan)
Resources- one or more external resources used for intrusion (software, knowledge, information, hardware, funds, facilities, access).

Social-Political Component: need/intent of the advesary (financial gain, acceptance in to the hacker community, hactivism, espionage)
Zombie in a botnet = compromised device thats controlled by an attacker to carry out malicious tasks. 
Crypto mining- solving cryptographic equations through computers to create new cryptocurrencies) 

Technology- (meta-feature) an adversary compromises legitimate websites they believe their target victim will vist (watering-hole attack). 

Practice Analysis: Successful Completion
—--------------------------------—-------

New Terms Learned:
Zombie
